README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/yelp-android.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/yelp-android)

# yelp-android
A Java library for the Yelp API. It simplifies the process of authentication, request construction, and response 
parsing for Java/Android developers using the Yelp API. This clientlib requires Java 7 or Android 2.3.

## Installation

Download [the latest JAR](https://search.maven.org/remote_content?g=com.yelp.clientlib&a=yelp-android&v=LATEST) or install by using [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.yelp.clientlib</groupId>
  <artifactId>yelp-android</artifactId>
  <version>2.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

or [Gradle](http://gradle.org/):

```groovy
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    ...
    compile 'com.yelp.clientlib:yelp-android:2.0.0'
    ...
}
```

## Usage

### Basic usage
This library uses a `YelpAPI` object to query against the API. Instantiate a `YelpAPI` object by using 
`YelpAPIFactory` with your API keys.
```java
YelpAPIFactory apiFactory = new YelpAPIFactory(consumerKey, consumerSecret, token, tokenSecret);
YelpAPI yelpAPI = apiFactory.createAPI();
```

### [Search API](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api)
Once you have a `YelpAPI` object you can use the `search` function to generate a `Call` object which makes a request to 
the Search API.

The general params and locale options should be passed to the method as a `Map<String, String>`. The full list of 
parameters can be found in the [Search API Documentation](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api).
```java
Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<>();

// general params
params.put("term", "food");
params.put("limit", "3");

// locale params
params.put("lang", "fr");

Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search("San Francisco", params);
```

Now you can execute the `Call` object to send the request.
```java
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```

You can also pass in a `Callback` object to send the request asynchronously. For more see [Asynchronous Requests](#asynchronous-requests) section.
```java
Callback<SearchResponse> callback = new Callback<SearchResponse>() {
    @Override
    public void onResponse(Call<SearchResponse> call, Response<SearchResponse> response) {
        SearchResponse searchResponse = response.body();
        // Update UI text with the searchResponse.
    }
    @Override
    public void onFailure(Call<SearchResponse> call, Throwable t) {
        // HTTP error happened, do something to handle it.
    }
};

call.enqueue(callback);
```

Additionally there are two more search methods for searching by a [bounding box](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api#searchGBB) or for [geographical coordinates](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api#searchGC):
```java
// bounding box
BoundingBoxOptions bounds = BoundingBoxOptions.builder()
        .swLatitude(37.7577)
        .swLongitude(-122.4376)
        .neLatitude(37.785381)
        .neLongitude(-122.391681).build();
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search(bounds, params);
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();

// coordinates
CoordinateOptions coordinate = CoordinateOptions.builder()
        .latitude(37.7577)
        .longitude(-122.4376).build();
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search(coordinate, params);
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```

### [Business API](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/business)
To query the Business API, use the `getBusiness` function with a `business_id`. You can also pass in locale parameters 
in a `Map<String, String>` as specified in the [Business API Documentation](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/business).
```java
Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness("yelp-san-francisco");
Response<Business> response = call.execute();
```
You can pass in locale information as well.
```java
Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<>();
params.put("lang", "fr");

Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness("yelp-san-francisco", params);
Response<Business> response = call.execute();
```

### [Phone Search API](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/phone_search)
To query the Phone Search API, use the `getPhoneSearch` function with a phone number. Additional parameters can be
passed in by using a `Map<String, String>` as specified in the [Phone Search API Documentation](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/phone_search).
```java
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.getPhoneSearch("+15555555555");
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```
You can pass in country code information as well
```java
Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<>();
params.put("cc", "US");
params.put("category", "fashion");

Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.getPhoneSearch("5555555555", params);
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```

### Asynchronous Requests
This library uses [Retrofit](http://square.github.io/retrofit/) as the HTTP client. To send a request asynchronously,
use `Call.enqueue()` to set `Callback` function for an asynchronous request.
```java
Callback<Business> callback = new Callback<Business>() {
    @Override
    public void onResponse(Call<Business> call, Response<Business> response) {
        Business business = response.body();
        // Update UI text with the Business object.
    }
    @Override
    public void onFailure(Call<Business> call, Throwable t) {
        // HTTP error happened, do something to handle it.
    }
};

Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness(businessId);
call.enqueue(callback);
```

You can cancel asynchronous requests by simply call `cancel()` on `Call` objects. It is important to cancel your calls 
while your `Activity` is being destroyed to avoid memory leaks.
```java
Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness(businessId);
call.enqueue(callback);

// Activity is being destroyed and the call should be canceled.
call.cancel();
```

For more information about the usage of asynchronous requests in Retrofit, see [Retrofit documentation](http://square.github.io/retrofit/).

## Responses
After `Call` object is executed, a `Response` contains parsed Java objects will be returned, use `Response.body()` to 
get parsed Java objects.

Search and phone search responses are parsed into `SearchResponse` objects.
```java
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search("San Francisco", params);
SearchResponse searchResponse = call.execute().body();

int totalNumberOfResult = searchResponse.total();  // 3

ArrayList<Business> businesses = searchResponse.businesses();
String businessName = businesses.get(0).name();  // "JapaCurry Truck"
Double rating = businesses.get(0).rating();  // 4.0
```

Business responses are parsed into `Business` objects directly.
```java
Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.business("japacurry-truck-san-francisco");
Response<Business> response = call.execute();
Business business = response.body();

String businessName = business.name();  // "JapaCurry Truck"
Double rating = business.rating();  // 4.0
```

For a full list of available response fields, take a look at the [documentation](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/overview) 
or the classes defined in [com.yelp.clientlib.entities](../../tree/master/src/main/java/com/yelp/clientlib/entities).

## Contributing
1. Fork it (http://github.com/yelp/yelp-android/fork)
2. Create your feature branch (git checkout -b my-new-feature)
3. Commit your changes (git commit -am 'Add some feature')
4. Push to the branch (git push origin my-new-feature)
5. Create new Pull Request

## Testing
Please write tests for any new features. We use JUnit + Gradle so just run `gradle test` to run the full test suite. 
To know more about running JUnit tests in Gradle, see [Gradle: The Java Plugin - Test](https://docs.gradle
.org/current/userguide/java_plugin.html#sec:java_test).

If you are adding a new integration test, you will need to connect to the Yelp API. You can set this up by putting 
your API keys into `src/integration-test/resources/credentials.yaml` in the following format:
```
consumer_key: YOUR_CONSUMER_KEY
consumer_secret: YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET
token: YOUR_TOKEN
token_secret: YOUR_TOKEN_SECRET
```

To run the integration tests, execute `gradle integrationTest`. Integration tests will not be ran in the build process
by executing `gradle build`.

Commit message:

updating README for proguard rules

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/yelp-android.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/yelp-android)

# yelp-android
A Java library for the Yelp API. It simplifies the process of authentication, request construction, and response 
parsing for Java/Android developers using the Yelp API. This clientlib requires Java 7 or Android 2.3.

## Installation

Download [the latest JAR](https://search.maven.org/remote_content?g=com.yelp.clientlib&a=yelp-android&v=LATEST) or install by using [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/):

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.yelp.clientlib</groupId>
  <artifactId>yelp-android</artifactId>
  <version>2.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

or [Gradle](http://gradle.org/):

```groovy
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    ...
    compile 'com.yelp.clientlib:yelp-android:2.0.0'
    ...
}
```
Proguard rules for the library can be found [here](https://github.com/Yelp/yelp-android/blob/master/proguard-rules.pro)

## Usage

### Basic usage
This library uses a `YelpAPI` object to query against the API. Instantiate a `YelpAPI` object by using 
`YelpAPIFactory` with your API keys.
```java
YelpAPIFactory apiFactory = new YelpAPIFactory(consumerKey, consumerSecret, token, tokenSecret);
YelpAPI yelpAPI = apiFactory.createAPI();
```

### [Search API](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api)
Once you have a `YelpAPI` object you can use the `search` function to generate a `Call` object which makes a request to 
the Search API.

The general params and locale options should be passed to the method as a `Map<String, String>`. The full list of 
parameters can be found in the [Search API Documentation](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api).
```java
Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<>();

// general params
params.put("term", "food");
params.put("limit", "3");

// locale params
params.put("lang", "fr");

Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search("San Francisco", params);
```

Now you can execute the `Call` object to send the request.
```java
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```

You can also pass in a `Callback` object to send the request asynchronously. For more see [Asynchronous Requests](#asynchronous-requests) section.
```java
Callback<SearchResponse> callback = new Callback<SearchResponse>() {
    @Override
    public void onResponse(Call<SearchResponse> call, Response<SearchResponse> response) {
        SearchResponse searchResponse = response.body();
        // Update UI text with the searchResponse.
    }
    @Override
    public void onFailure(Call<SearchResponse> call, Throwable t) {
        // HTTP error happened, do something to handle it.
    }
};

call.enqueue(callback);
```

Additionally there are two more search methods for searching by a [bounding box](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api#searchGBB) or for [geographical coordinates](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/search_api#searchGC):
```java
// bounding box
BoundingBoxOptions bounds = BoundingBoxOptions.builder()
        .swLatitude(37.7577)
        .swLongitude(-122.4376)
        .neLatitude(37.785381)
        .neLongitude(-122.391681).build();
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search(bounds, params);
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();

// coordinates
CoordinateOptions coordinate = CoordinateOptions.builder()
        .latitude(37.7577)
        .longitude(-122.4376).build();
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search(coordinate, params);
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```

### [Business API](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/business)
To query the Business API, use the `getBusiness` function with a `business_id`. You can also pass in locale parameters 
in a `Map<String, String>` as specified in the [Business API Documentation](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/business).
```java
Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness("yelp-san-francisco");
Response<Business> response = call.execute();
```
You can pass in locale information as well.
```java
Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<>();
params.put("lang", "fr");

Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness("yelp-san-francisco", params);
Response<Business> response = call.execute();
```

### [Phone Search API](http://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/phone_search)
To query the Phone Search API, use the `getPhoneSearch` function with a phone number. Additional parameters can be
passed in by using a `Map<String, String>` as specified in the [Phone Search API Documentation](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/phone_search).
```java
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.getPhoneSearch("+15555555555");
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```
You can pass in country code information as well
```java
Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<>();
params.put("cc", "US");
params.put("category", "fashion");

Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.getPhoneSearch("5555555555", params);
Response<SearchResponse> response = call.execute();
```

### Asynchronous Requests
This library uses [Retrofit](http://square.github.io/retrofit/) as the HTTP client. To send a request asynchronously,
use `Call.enqueue()` to set `Callback` function for an asynchronous request.
```java
Callback<Business> callback = new Callback<Business>() {
    @Override
    public void onResponse(Call<Business> call, Response<Business> response) {
        Business business = response.body();
        // Update UI text with the Business object.
    }
    @Override
    public void onFailure(Call<Business> call, Throwable t) {
        // HTTP error happened, do something to handle it.
    }
};

Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness(businessId);
call.enqueue(callback);
```

You can cancel asynchronous requests by simply call `cancel()` on `Call` objects. It is important to cancel your calls 
while your `Activity` is being destroyed to avoid memory leaks.
```java
Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.getBusiness(businessId);
call.enqueue(callback);

// Activity is being destroyed and the call should be canceled.
call.cancel();
```

For more information about the usage of asynchronous requests in Retrofit, see [Retrofit documentation](http://square.github.io/retrofit/).

## Responses
After `Call` object is executed, a `Response` contains parsed Java objects will be returned, use `Response.body()` to 
get parsed Java objects.

Search and phone search responses are parsed into `SearchResponse` objects.
```java
Call<SearchResponse> call = yelpAPI.search("San Francisco", params);
SearchResponse searchResponse = call.execute().body();

int totalNumberOfResult = searchResponse.total();  // 3

ArrayList<Business> businesses = searchResponse.businesses();
String businessName = businesses.get(0).name();  // "JapaCurry Truck"
Double rating = businesses.get(0).rating();  // 4.0
```

Business responses are parsed into `Business` objects directly.
```java
Call<Business> call = yelpAPI.business("japacurry-truck-san-francisco");
Response<Business> response = call.execute();
Business business = response.body();

String businessName = business.name();  // "JapaCurry Truck"
Double rating = business.rating();  // 4.0
```

For a full list of available response fields, take a look at the [documentation](https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v2/overview) 
or the classes defined in [com.yelp.clientlib.entities](../../tree/master/src/main/java/com/yelp/clientlib/entities).

## Contributing
1. Fork it (http://github.com/yelp/yelp-android/fork)
2. Create your feature branch (git checkout -b my-new-feature)
3. Commit your changes (git commit -am 'Add some feature')
4. Push to the branch (git push origin my-new-feature)
5. Create new Pull Request

## Testing
Please write tests for any new features. We use JUnit + Gradle so just run `gradle test` to run the full test suite. 
To know more about running JUnit tests in Gradle, see [Gradle: The Java Plugin - Test](https://docs.gradle
.org/current/userguide/java_plugin.html#sec:java_test).

If you are adding a new integration test, you will need to connect to the Yelp API. You can set this up by putting 
your API keys into `src/integration-test/resources/credentials.yaml` in the following format:
```
consumer_key: YOUR_CONSUMER_KEY
consumer_secret: YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET
token: YOUR_TOKEN
token_secret: YOUR_TOKEN_SECRET
```

To run the integration tests, execute `gradle integrationTest`. Integration tests will not be ran in the build process
by executing `gradle build`.
